
I wake up every morning dreading talking to Jenica.  "I want less of you (Jenica)". Are the words that immediately pop into my head each time I realize where I am.

Now the first words that in awake to are "Im tired of this". Or " this is not my life". Every morning it hits me like a punch to the gut.

My face is changing. I've gotten so old so quickly after being the guy who looked younger than he is.  I've gained weight. One by one my clothes no longer fit.

It's amazing how long you can deny something is happening when you're still fighting it.  This part of my life lasted from 13 April 2021 till now (8th July 2023).  Wow.  Two years of feeling like this.

These should have been the happiest, most wonderful times of my life.

I want to write to Jenica

Dear narcissist,

It's time to acknowledge what is going on here.  I know it won't maken a difference in the substance of our communication but I will be less of a burden on me to stop pretending that you are anything other than someone who acts out of your own short term interest.

It is no comfort to me to accept that one day Colette will navigate around you the way most adults who truly understand you navigate around you.  With a mixture of love and pity, but without trust or the ability to truly connect with you. Because to connect with someone you have to be able to emphasize with them and you simply can't do that.  One day Colette will grow to love you the way you love your mother.  The biological requirement of love will always work against the sense of reluctance and resentment that you feel.

It's no comfort knowing that, being older parents this phase where Colette realizes what you did to her will last for a minority of your life.  You won't truly have to experience the impact of her understanding what you are.  In fact, because of what you've done I'll miss the majority of her life, no matter what I do.

You've done this.  You knew that my greatest fear before becoming a parent was that I would be working too much to be a part my child's life.  I adjusted so much of my life to be a significant part of my future child's life even before meeting you, and somehow you managed to make it so that I will see my daughter less than I saw my father.

Somehow you managed to recreate the same distant and strained relationship you have with your father.
