#Colette 
#GraphicNovel 

Tell this story in the graphic novel but it's a monkey on a ladder to look above the crowd and a giraffe leans in (are they native to west Africa?) And whispers "you know we don't really believe in this)

You aren't supposed to photograph them.   And if they touch you, you die.  Everyone knows that and respects it.

That made it hard for me. At the time I wanted to photograph everything.

The sharp warping pitch of the talking drum pinged over the crowd in the square where the town's biggest and oldest Baobab stood.  Every exit was blocked and I was happy to watch from the sloped dirt bank next to a cinder block wall that let me stand slightly higher than the crowd. Kids hugged their parents legs beside me while their older brothers ran in between the people who crowded along the fringes of the alleyway.  

The Six or seven drummers gathered under the shade of the Baobab had a steady beat.  Just a group of Vodun drummers that came into town to put on a show and make some money under the watchful and unconcerned eye of a local adobe mosque.  No one wrings hands about the scholarly conflict between Muhammad and the revenants- ghosts- that these drummers have summoned up. These shows are something else man.  Its taken me decades and I still remember every detail.

Boom, the revenants hips swish suddenly and impossibly up, his arms thrown back swaying the guile suit's grass and cloth folds. Dust comes off the ghost.  It's fabric at once bright and dirty, as old as its own constitution would allow.  The person it has chosen to inhabit for the time must be a damn good dancer and is no doubt sweating under the layers of brightly coloured West African harlequin.  His face stares you down with it's severe mesh of black and white vertical lines. 

A slight break in the drum beat and the Revenant surges forward-  he stops dancing and starts to charge the crowd madly.  Chaos on that side of the street abrupts as the children scream in terror and joy.  A serious looking drummer jumps to his feet and chases the wild Revenant down, bringing him back under control with a more specific beat.  He coaxes the ghost back to the drumming ring where two more ghosts are dancing madly, beautifully.  The crowd is loving it.  Business is on hold as more people trickle toward the wall- shoulder to shoulder- and nearby fences as they get a better look.

I'm getting looks too- wary backward looks from the individuals who are unlucky enough to be bored of their less than ideal view.  Even with this crazy and imminent ghost-touch-death on the line being white will get you some curious stares from the kids and a few adults.  

I decide to cross the street to the fence improve my view as well.  I step down to street level and lose sight of the action behind the wall of onlookers.  But the crowd is breaking  everyone rushes for the walls and store fronts bordering the street while the kids bolt straight down the red dust road. The red revenant- the one with the bead curtain for a face has gotten loose and starts charging into the crowd- running of the bulls style.  People run like death is on the line.  

I kind of feel a little apart from this whole show.  I'm the foreigner. This running shit isn't for me.  I'll just walk out of the way slowly because this part- this is for the kids right?  Those kids are FAST. wow. Oh he's close, okay I'll do this little half-run... just so I don't get in the way of the show. But bead face is still coming down the street and he seems to have focused on me oh shit oh shit oh shit.  I'm at full fucking sprint now.

Everyone starts laughing.  The kids standing on the berms forming a crowd on either side of the street, the adults who are reforming the human wall along the square think this is hilarious.  Fucking everyone.

Lucky for me there was this old dude standing in the middle of the street.  The kind of old where just sitting down and getting up is a big deal.  When I run past him the Revenant stops, gives a little respectful gesture and runs back towards the Baobab.    It kind of breaks the third wall of the ghost act when the ghost bows to grandpa, but respect for elders runs deep here.  

The heat of running was nothing like the heat of embarrassment.  

Once all this settles down and the crowd is focused back on the square, a man approaches me.  He's about 40ish to my 18. He's got the vibe of someone who has been lucky enough to travel to Europe in the past and maybe has a few of the sour memories of being looked down on there. He says to me in French.

"You know, we don't really believe that's a ghost inside there, I want you to know that."   I nod.  "It's just a lot of fun."

That moment suck with me for a while.  I don't know why he told me that but I'm glad he did.  It left a lot of questions but also a lot of dimensions to that experience.

Did he think I looked down on him?  Was he worried I would leave there and start telling stories about these "silly Fon people" or was he simply trying to reassure me that there was no harm meant in this traditional faith that had stood the test of time between strict Christianity and monotheism obsessed Islam?

Lately I've been thinking about all of these practical superstitions we have in our daily lives.  In a pandemic we have new superstitions.  Social distancing.  Wearing masks and the degrees of belief we have in them.  Trying to make sense of the charts and numbers and distilling them into different degrees of fear, reverence and bravado.

Someone in a position to transmit the virus to me very patiently explained that they don't believe in the mainstream media and that the science behind mask wearing was suspect.  Anti mask superstition is powerful and real and it's killing people. I'm watching this pernicious ideology in horror as the cases grow where I live. I'm worrying about my one month old daughter and... lately I'm remembering that guy in the road off the square in Allada, Benin.

I wish someone here would tell me now "It's not that we don't really believe masks are useless. The anti-mask thing is just a silly story to keep people watching the news, It's all a big joke and no one takes the position seriously.  But we value the story more than we are bothered by the dissonance."  That would help put everything in perspective.  But the Covid-19 numbers keep rising. 

I managed to sneak a photo. At a funeral where the drummers and dancers performed a more muted show.  

#onCorkBord