Jenica doing "Beauty days" with Colette,

Are the patterns repeating?
"Why do you put on make-up"?

Asked the pirate

" To look beautiful" said Colette

"<<What is beautiful?">>Asked the pirate

Now that's a silly question.

"A flower is beautiful"

So you look a flower?

No!  I look like me 

If you look like you then why cover your face?  So a flower isn't beautiful is it? Beauty is something else.  Why do we call a flower beautiful?

"Because a flower reminds us of something beautiful." She was getting tired of the pirate now, and the make up felt hot and sticky under the sun.


A flower reflects beauty, like a puddle reflects the sun, even though water isn't the sun?  Is there water in the sun?

No...

The more the sun shines the smaller the puddle gets?  Just like the more make-up you wear the less of your facei see,?

So Beauty isn't in a flower. Or make up. Or the sun. So what?

Make up reminds us of beauty, even if it covers us up, but  we don't see Beauty when we look at a stick of makeup.  

How does it make you feel?  

Confident.  Hot. A little.

Maybe you feel confident because it takes something away from you.  It takes away your comfort in your own skin.  

The roughe felt rough under the sun.

What does the truth wear?

Nothing is can't wear clothes.  It's not a thing.   

Then why does beauty need make up?

Suddenly Colette felt something she didn't realize she felt, she felt confident because she was avoiding another new feeling.

"Shame". 

Shame?  Asked the pirate

I feel the absence of shame.  I feel embarrassed when I don't have the make up.  

Hiding part of the time made her feel like she should be hiding all of the time. Like covering the plain and imperfect parts of her face made her feel like her face should be covered all the time.

She was running from embarassment and feeding it more each day.

The truth is naked and Shane wears eyeliner....

That's what I think. 

The more I put on make-up the less of me there is.  Beauty isn't in a jar or a can,it just reminds us that some beautiful things have bright colours or smooth surfaces.  But some beautiful things are rough, patchy and have zits.  

She was hiding her face because the less she saw of it the more she was embarrassed of what little she saw.

The pirate let her wipe off the foundation on his handkerchief she felt naked and normal.  Even a little bit beautiful.