
We hold these truths to be self evident
That every parent has an inalienable right to access to their child and that every child has an inalienable right to their parent regardless of economic status, nationality or language.*

*Exceptions would be very specific circumstances.*

Image of an eagle on top of a tree, at the very bottom of the page the tree extends and it's being gnawed by a beaver.

Eagle asks. Why did you fell my tree?  
Beaver the tree is mine. It's Domain is the Earth and the water that's where I live.  Eagle: but it's useful to me.  Beaver (still working) why? Because from the tree I can see other things I plan to claim for my own.  
Beaver but your domain is the sky. You take things because they are there and it's convenient, but you can see much more than you can ever use.  It's not right for you to decide who does what with the things that touch their homes.

The eyes can always want more than the body can use.

Eagle: That sounds like socialism. If I can take it then I should. If I worked the hardest for it then I should get it.

Beaver: Well I would have to work very hard to be able to fly around and claim what my will desired.  These rules don't suit me.

Eagle: They don't have to. 

Beaver: you're starting to sound like an empire. 

Eagle: Empires are intentional. This is the triumph of whim, opportunity and luck.  I shan't be held accountable. I didn't ask for this.  

Beaver: Sounds like we are cooking the meal and paying the bill.

Eagle: It isn't our fault if the food was already prepared and served. We never expected to be so hungry.  

Beaver: Everything gets hungry, we can always expect ourselves to be hungry, and from that experience we can imagine that other creatures get hungry too.  Hundreds of hungry creatures in this forest and if our needs must be met then it's obvious that they needs must be met too.

Eagle:  I refused to work to put food into other creatures bellies.  It's not my fault they are hungry.

Beaver: Hunger is the default. It's inevitable.

Eagles: Hunger is often a problem that solves itself.

(Flies away)


Beaver:  Some day you will get hungry and eat all of the words you just said.  

=======
Call back:


