
I wanted you to have a good life. Even in this place.  After your mom showed no interest in the business I built for her it became apparent that the only way we could move out if the one bedroom house that her parents gave her the downpayment for was to find a good job .
I chose programming because it paid well and there was a chance I could do it from home and watch you grow up from there. But most importantly it was hard.  So there was less of a chance that someone could jump in and take my job from me. That's important.

I dreamed that you would have your own bedroom and you could have a live in a nice house like your uncle Andy and Erica's kids do. Maybe you could even have an in the ground pool like the one your mom grew up with.

I worked hard. And for a moment it looked like I could do it.  Before I got serious, I built a little circuit that could detect the voltage of film equipment and a program that ran on an android phone that could show you the information. It was proof I could do this and I could hold it in my hands.

I started into the basics of computer science and you would pop your little head around the corner and giggle because you knew I would chase you.

Everything was going so well until your mom kicked me out.

Somehow your brother made it to six without knowing how to swim.  We got him lessons and she became hyper focused on getting you swimming.  I began teaching you french - when she cancelled the Green card she began to speak to you in broken German and Spanish.

Now she had taken an $18,000 loan from her parents to do a data science course.

I was devastated. I couldn't work or focus anymore.  I laid on the floor and cried.

I begged your mom to bring you to me. I begged her for a hug so I could feel some human kindness. She refused.

By August 2021 the food stamp agency called me to confirm how much money I was sending to support her.  It was on average $800 a month for that year.  She was living with her parents again - even though they said if she had another kid they would have to ask her to move into her own place.  She was unemployed in the hottest job market and lowest unemployment in decades.

But her pride was intact.  She never admitted she was wrong.