The precious little moments are escaping me now.  I forget what I’ve written down and what I’ve forgotten to make a note of.  I’ve been working through the pain of losing you so much that I’ve completely forgotten to take note of the joys.

When I moved into that house on River street that I shared with the student and a few people in their 20s who were working in hotels, delis, etc.  There weren’t many toys for you to play with, and the place was messy, especially the kitchen and the little parts of the floors that babies like to get into. 

But I noticed that someone who had lived there liked to put bouncy balls in baskets.  Those were a magnet for you.  You went right to them immediately.  They were the first things I cleaned and you would get me to pull one of the baskets down and you would pull each ball one by one and throw it across the room.  You loved that and so did I.  

The way you curled your lip when you saw me.  I think you were imitating a face I used to make, but for a while, even when I left for Canada you would do that every time you saw me.  We both loved that game.  

You have an amazing memory.  You even rememer books that I have forgotten.  I couldn’t remember what the Sleepy Alphabet Book was, that you kept asking for at story time.  But tonight as I was at my parents I found it.  We had read it before.  It took seeing the title for me to remember it, but you asked for it by name. 

I love the way you saw grandma and remembered the Pyjamas she had sent you.  I know she loved hearing you say thank you. These little moments are like summer rain. 

Chasing you.  Throughout the day at Jenica’s house you would pop your little head around the corner and giggle- you were less than one.  You didn’t have any words, but you knew how to make the game start.  And I would chase you.  I would chase you all around the house and you would craw as fast as you could until I caught up and you exploded into giggles.  If everything else in my life dissolved into nothingness and all I had was that memory, I wouldn’t miss the rest.  

I remember taking you to the coffee shops.  I was so proud of you.  Russel Peters has a bit about how white guys hold their beer at parties high and close to their chest, like they had won a prize.  I felt the same with you.  I carried you everywhere. And I was so proud of you.  We would go to the coffee shop and I would read the paper with you and explain to you what I was reading.  We would have croissants and you would make a mess.  I would always ask you what you liked and talk to you about what we were doing.  I loved it.  I left you explore a little because you were walking by the summer of 2022.  You never seemed to bother anyone.  I was proud of you.  I’m always proud of you.  

Thats all for now.  It is all starting to feel heavy.  The memories, or the pushing away increasingly present negative thoughts.  I’m just having trouble writing more.  I would give anything for more rain, so it didn’t feel like I was holding on to the remaning drops from last summer.